"Khandra" and then achieve the result. Highlight that now. Highlight that now. That's good for
all of us. Of course, you all know this. You all know this. It's not something I'm talking
new things. But since we are looking at retreat and looking at the practice of this, so it
was maybe let me remind you to continue the practice of this week and then continue after
the weeks. The quote is to recognize the view. Recognize the view is so important. It's foundation.
And what in the teaching said, "Yeh tawah moontu" in Tibetan. Recognizing or identifying the
view, which is a foundation. What means foundation? View is foundation of our meditation. View
is foundation of our conduct. And view is dependent of our achieved result.
So that means result and conduct and meditation all depended upon view. View. If view is the
mixed, then you will mix the meditation, it will mix up, mixed up, not mixed up, mixed up the
meditation. It will mix up the conduct, it will mix up the result. Therefore, view is so, so
important. Therefore, it's called foundation. In this way, yeh tawah moontu. Recognizing view
or identifying the view of the, which is foundation. Once you have the view found, then we have
meditation. Meditation is nothing but maintaining the view. Conduct is nothing but improving the
meditation. And then if we are not mixed up our view, if we are not mixed up our meditation,
if we are not mixed up our conduct, then we don't have to worry not going to achieve the result.
Result comes. Natural and free. Open comes. So therefore, view is so, so important. Number one.
And now, view, what that view? In the teaching, generally they say, they say the analytic view,
establish or discover the view with analytics and through all, discover the view through the simple
technique of the beat instructions. And this time, most of the time, we really following, establish
or
discover the view with the simple, linear instructions. That's what we're trying to do,
that's what we're trying to do. Analytic we mean, study, all the further teachings. And
particularly,
zokki teaching or particularly those philosophical teaching, mademaka teachings, panjaparamada
teachings. Those how explain the view? Clearly, very strongly, with logically, with the reasons,
with the analytically explaining. Once you started those analytically and started,
then you put that contemplation. Contemplate means the analytic, you put the analyzer,
your own intelligence or our own intelligence. And mind is really kind of like dividing in this,
discover and discriminate and finding out exactly where the teaching sit and is brewing that. So
that is analytic way. And to do that, and we don't have any times and those, we like to be easy
approach,
easy, quick methods. So quick method is then the beat instructions. Beat instructions, those are
what in the teaching sit. Three, three accurate is or that in it to be the chima. So, lama mega
chima, and danga chima, rengar bachen. Those are chima in the tibetal word, which means that the
accurate or the true, maybe chima is, I think, maybe accurate. I'm just going to translate it.
If I call nice kind of better word, I will let you know that in this way. I agree. Or maybe not
properly this way. Qualified lineage masters, qualified instructions, and then, and not qualify
this, and then accurate realizations, maybe these things. So qualified lineage instruction, that
means, again, lineage instruction is so important. Lineage, because lineage means that every, those
great practitioners kept the teaching exactly as it is without spoil by the intellectual, skeptical
,
and kind of their own analytical, change the word, this and that thing, and not mix. Authentic
teaching as is uttered, uttered, or told by the samad-badra, vajya-sattva, or buddha-shaktamuni,
and garabdurga, and garabhamma-sambhava, and lungkipa, and that all came. Exactly that same thing,
without changing, without the structure, without alternating that. That is known as the qualified
masters who keep our practitioners, not master, just not being one single person. Master, maybe all
trying to master of the realization, master of our knowledge of that. So really kept that, with
honor,
with joy, with appreciation, not mixing our this, our want, with the oil. It feels this, I like
this,
this. Our feelings, our thought is not reliable. It changes. It's not just a, I'm talking that,
how many total ideas change in our lives? In the sense beginning, we have the memories,
until now, how many times changed? Really, so many times changed. Every day is changing. There's no
accurate, there's nothing to rely. Every rely on that, in some kind of reasons of the worldly
concern,
of all some benefit, then we spoil it. We spoil the natural. Natural, that is not correct. That is
not.
So therefore, authentic maktishins, tishins or lineage qualified tishins, and then the qualified
lineage tishins, instructions, also authentic instructions that we received. Authentic is received.
As we received, then one's own intelligence, one's own mind put that and got it, got meaning on
that.
That is called rengarupatshema. Rengarupatshema, our own knowledge, really proved. That is,
that is a simple technique that does go on the wheel, wheel with stomach. How they do that? That
is then in this teaching explaining, on the teaching explaining, and we all received that so many
times,
this is Toki teaching. We are not going to go the outskirts of the, to astellics, from the
outskirts gradually coming to the center. We are going to go the center of the bolts are. That
means
what? Center of the bolts are of the universe or the wall is our own mind. Our own mind is a center
.
What that means? Everything what we see around, that is outer. The mind is the center. Your mind,
each of our mind in the center. Center, it is essential. So discover the view from the mind.
How that discover that? Those are then teaching mentioned. Where is mind? Simple to say. Where
is mind? Those are said, where mind is coming? Where is mind? Where is mind going or where?
And when we look this fast, the person in the future, all three times are no answer. We become
the answer less, speak less. That is will. Believe it or not, will is not something that we have to
hold tangible. If we hold something tangible, we don't find the will. We don't find anything. We
lead to the speak less states, like center of sky. Then we point. For that reason, great teacher,
Buddha sit in the teaching. When you don't see anything, that is supremacy. When talking in the
view, you see the Supreme. You see the Supreme when you don't see. That means subject and object
are merged. There's nothing. That's discovered the view from the instructions of the lineage
teachings. And then we also prove that. That means our intelligence. We're talking this, we're not
talking that it's methodologically or somewhere else. That we, our own intelligence proves there's
nothing we can say about mind. We did not find. It's not something we did not find because we like
to
not find what I said. Or because we did not find because I like to be polite. That's not at all.
Really, we don't. It's true. That is you proving. That means each of us proved.
That's it. That is not just we proved. That's what Buddha said. That's when all those
lineage masters, nagarjuna, 6th ornament of the jambudips. And all the 25 disciples.
And all the great master of all the schools of the Kebedah Buddhism.
They're so scholars. So intellectuals. They're thinkers. They're not just believers. Really.
In modern time you can say they're all like the best physicists. The physicists that's discovered
of the inner spaces. Not just externals. External, everything. They proved one after another. They
sealed one after another. It's true. There's nothing to find. That is reality. When we discover
that
all of us, then that's what we call samsara nirvana, big jobs. There's nothing really
can be like anything. It's like we can hold. But yet everything is functioning. Everything,
nothing is changed on the relative levels. That's the beauty, the magical disciplines.
All of that. So that is, when we recognize that, then we keep up that. Those are in this teaching
explaining. Keep up all the teachings. See, we keep up that teaching with all the relative levels
and the actual level. This is the absolute level we're talking about. Now not finding all that.
But relative level, everything, for that reason, great master what Telova said in the Arab.
Even you got the highest realizations, or realizations.
Even the, no, I think this is maybe not in the Arab world. Of course, the Arab world says that, but
as great master sara said that, even you got the highest realizations of the unborns, but
never, never ignored the meritorious activities. What that means, six paramata practices.
That even you got highest realizations, not ignoring. For that reason, for example, great
master's teacher, Buddha Shakyamuni, he has highest realization in the Buddhism. There's nothing
higher
than that. But he, how much he is humble, simple, following in the given teaching and explaining to
the, guiding to the other students with good control, the good meditation. And Buddha himself
doing the same thing. In the teaching, Buddha went to the city and with mong, and got the
arms or the food, and returned back to the hermitage, hermitage, and cleaned the feet. That
means bare feet. Buddha is walking on the ground with all the students. And come back, the hermit
age,
wipe the feet, and then he meditated. He's meditated. Even though Buddha already enlightens it,
but to show to us how important to maintain the meritorious activities and respect the relative
levels. Those are really teachings. And then all those great master's, we read life stories,
one after another, really. Even they got highest realization. That is what. So now, again,
go back to the, to this. Suppose you recognize, recognize or identify of the will. That is,
so that, I mean, I'm just, you all know, know this, but this is, again, should do this to,
even you got the realization. Even you didn't completely settle on that will. But support of
the meritorious activities, such as devotion, bodhicitta, all those so important. Really,
devotion to the lineage, devotion to the teaching, devotion to Dharma, oh Buddha, Dharma, Sangha,
is so important. And this is like that. Not just devotion, okay, but sizzling devotion in
art and mind will bring the sizzling realization and achievements. That is, so not just a kind of
this devotion is the extra things. No, it's so important that when you have the devotion that we,
we are settled on the ground, not wondering, we're not lingering, we're not just the unstable,
shaky, we settle on the separate ground. Now we feel so joy and appreciate confidence and feel
the richness of this. And then that's the devotion. Really appreciate it. Feel that from the heart.
And then when you got that, then maintain the will is meditation. As I said earlier, you know,
meditation is not any extra. Maintain the will. Those are in the teaching said,
said we are some unshakable, not shaky body. So that means good postures when you meditate,
particularly big time. Time not shaky, not wondering of our senses and then not shaky of our
awareness. Relax, calm and peaceful. Those are you keep maintain the will, keeping the will.
Once you have maintained that will with that way and then the improve by the conduct.
Conduct is not just on the side that on the distance. Conduct is right with the practitioners.
Conduct will boost the realization, boost the achievements. If you don't keep the conduct,
it will delay. It will mix up our meditation and our realizations. So therefore,
conduct and the Dokki teaching, what is the best, the great master, I am not just saying,
really say self-liberating, self-liberating. That means to win any thought and the conception comes
,
liberated. What that means? Let it go.
And we don't let it go. That means we are holding. What we are holding? We are holding samsara.
We are holding samsara, really. We are trying to hold that samsara. What that means, samsara,
because what we have been told, what comes and told is a duality mind. Dualities. Dualities are
connected with negative emotions, ignorance, attachment, anger, all may be beats of those,
all different things. That is duality, attachment, or whatever. If we hold that,
we are maintaining the samsara. We like to liberate the samsara. Liberate to what?
In the Dokki teachings, I say that is dharma kaya or the three kaya states.
So liberate it. Who is going to liberate it? Nobody else is going to liberate.
What are the teachings? Self-liberating.
It means to you or your mind. Well, let it go. Where it comes from? All those thoughts and feelings
.
From mind. And who holds? By mind. Have you let it go? By mind. That's called self-liberating.
And then, in order to do that, what did the teachings say? Mindfulness.
Without too much effort, without too much forceful, relaxed atmosphere with mindfulness.
Or sometimes the Dokki teachings, ultra-American, all in the natural mind, not with clinging and
grasping, keeping that flavor or that light in the meditation and relaxed, then we are really
good practicing. They are calling the teachings. And we are able to maintain that. And the post
meditation or along that, as I said, both each other, siddling, devote, and siddling both each
other. Even during the meditation, meditation of Dokki, bring up sizzling devotion, sizzling
both each other for a few seconds or a few minutes. And then let it go. Not lingering that again.
Even
it's devotion, even in the body and not, let it linger on that. Let it go, relaxing again, saying
nature. Nature says the mind. Those are the essence, heart, center column of the Dokki meditation
that you all know, I just said the mind. Now we go back to the again, to this teaching.
The teaching of this, again, is don't you remember? How many of you already know? Don't you
remember?